## what is the use of Object Factories?
> Factory methods that will be used to create objects just like in a static way.

What is the use of Message object?
What is the basic difference between Publish Subscribe model and P2P model?
What is the use of BytesMessage?
What is the use of StreamMessage?
What is the use of TextMessage?
What is the use of ObjectMessage?
What is the use of MapMessage?
What is the difference between BytesMessage and StreamMessage?
What is object message ?
What is text message?
What is Map message?
What is the difference between queue and topic ?
What are the three components of a Message ?
What is the difference between queue and topic?
What are the types of messaging?
What is the difference between Point to Point and Publish/Subscribe
Why doesn?t the JMS API provide end-to-end synchronous message delivery and notification of delivery?
What are the core JMS-related objects required for each JMS-enabled application?
How does the Application server handle the JMS Connection?
What is Stream Message ?
What Is the JMS API?
How JMS is different from RPC?
What type messaging is provided by JMS ?
What is JMS application ?
What is the difference between Message producer and Message consumer?
What is the difference between durable and non-durable subscriptions?
What is the use of JMS? In which situations we are using JMS? Can we send message from one server to another server using JMS?
What is JMS session?
What is asynchronous messaging?
What is synchronous messaging?
Does JMS specification define transactions?
What is the Role of the JMS Provider?
What Is Messaging?
What is the main parts of JMS applications?
Which models are supported by JMS?
What is publish/subscribe messaging?
What is JMS administered object?
What is the publish-and-subscribe model in JMS?
What are the advantages of JMS?
Is it mandatory to place class files in the WEB-INF folder and all JSP's outside?
What type messaging is provided by JMS?
How may messaging models do JMS provide for and what are they?
What is the point-to-point model in JMS?
What is JMS?
Explain the creation of JMS Administered objects?
Explain the creation of JMS Administered objects?
Explain about the exception handling mechanism of JMS?
Explain about map message?
Explain about message selector?
Explain about message listeners?